We are delighted to welcome one and all
to the June 2022 program
of JW Broadcasting®!
Because of the COVID-19 pandemic,
all of the students
in the previous class of Gilead
were from the United States.
However, we were very happy
that the Governing Body approved
for 24 fully vaccinated brothers and sisters
from 13 different lands
to be invited to the 151st class of Gilead.
On March 12, 2022,
this enthusiastic class graduated.
How did they personally benefit
from the school?
How will they use their five months
of Bible training?
Where will they be assigned?
Please enjoy Part 1
of the 151st Gilead graduation program.
Well, class 151,
you seem excited, and you should be.
This is a very special day for you
—one you’ll never forget.
Just as with the entire course of Gilead,
you’ll never forget.
And we’re happy to be with you today.
And we will all benefit
from the things that are said today
at this spiritual program.
But even so, we know that although
this will benefit everyone involved,
the program has been designed
with you in mind.
So with every talk given,
the brothers have prayerfully considered
what can be said to encourage.
And as you listen, just be certain
that the brothers have had that in mind.
But all of us listening today will benefit
from the good things
that will come out in this program.
When the day is over,
you’ll look back and recall a program
that honored Jehovah
and confirmed his love for you.
And again, you’re never going to forget it.
During the past five months
of your schooling, you were asked to draw out
principles from many different
Bible accounts.
And you worked hard to do that, didn’t you?
You learned new ways to do that,
to see the Scriptures
as something that Jehovah wants us
to listen to very carefully
and then apply its fine points in our lives.
So those accounts focused
on genuine servants of God
who with his help
succeeded in doing His will.
And you were doing the same.
You examined principles for Christian living,
you examined principles for teaching others,
you looked at principles
about how to organize the work, and so forth.
This graduation program will do the same.
With that in mind, I have a theme
for these brief introductory comments.
I thought it would keep me focused.
So here’s my theme:
“You Are Ready to Face the Things Ahead.”
Now, notice that it’s not a question:
Are you ready?
It’s a statement: You are ready
to face the things ahead.
Now, why can we say this
with such confidence?
Because we see your faith.
We see your deep love
for our heavenly Father, Jehovah,
and his Son.
You’ve trusted in Jehovah,
you have done well,
and you’ve made it to graduation day.
I know some of you wondered
if you would make it, but you did.
Here you are.
You’re graduating
with the 151st class of Gilead.
What a delight!
You undoubtedly agree more than ever before
with what the apostle Paul wrote
at Philippians 4:13,
where he said: “For all things
I have the strength through [who?]
the one who gives me power.”
And we know who that is.
Jehovah has surely helped you
during these months
to make a success of Gilead school.
And we’re very proud of you for that.
You can be certain that Jehovah
is just delighted to see that
because you love him
and you went through this course,
you’ve gone through it
with that in mind, true?
Jehovah gave you what you needed,
and that’s a blessing you must never forget.
By remembering it, you will put
that blessing to work for you
wherever you are in your service to Jehovah
in the weeks, months, and years ahead.
Really, these things you learn
and that all of us learn now
will serve us well forever.
For example, whenever you face
a task in the future
that seems almost too large
for you to tackle or handle,
you’ll remember how Jehovah helped you
in this school.
Your experience in going through Gilead
now adds to your extensive experience,
the experience you already had
in serving Jehovah,
but this just enriches it that much more.
It will help you as you face
trials and tests ahead
in that you’ll know you can make it through
what you may view as difficult times
because Jehovah will help you to do it.
You are growing ever more and more ready
to face the things ahead.
You already are, but you’ll grow
more and more so, like all of us will,
as you reflect on and remember
what Jehovah has done for you,
such as helping you
to complete this Bible school course.
Here’s an example of things
you must be ready to handle or you may face.
Soon after your graduation,
you will be off to your assignments.
And as you go,
have in mind Jesus’ words,
where he taught his disciples to pray:
“Do not bring us into temptation,
but deliver us from the wicked one.”
Now focus on the words
“temptation” and “wicked one.”
They go together, don’t they?
Temptation and wicked one.
Satan, “the wicked one,”
doesn’t like your success here at Gilead.
You can be certain that he hates this school
and all the good that it has accomplished
through the years in honoring Jehovah
and benefiting His people
and those in the field.
So, then, what temptations
or stumbling blocks
might Satan try to place before you
now that you’ve graduated from this school?
Well, here are a few things,
and they are things
that all of us must face.
For example,
if you’re not careful, you might be tempted
to become self-satisfied
with what you have accomplished.
Don’t ever let that happen to you.
Never be self-satisfied.
Keep setting goals for yourself.
Strive to please Jehovah
more and more each day
in all that you do.
It’s the principles that we draw
from God’s Word
that help us to do that.
Yet, here’s a caution:
Your healthy desire to keep setting goals
must not be allowed
to lead you into the next temptation.
And that is this:
the temptation to give in to pride.
That can happen.
It can happen to a person
when he or she forgets
who has truly helped them to succeed
—and that is Jehovah.
Those who forget about Jehovah may become
ambitious and try to outshine others.
We must never allow that to happen
to our heart and mind.
We must never become like that.
In fact, we must fight against pride.
And one key way to do this
is to remember that in all that you do
—in all that we do—
it is always about Jehovah.
When we have that focus,
we will succeed in doing things his way,
the right way,
no matter what we face in the future.
So we reflect on his blessings.
We see how he’s strengthened us.
We’re confident he will continue to do so,
and he will do that for you.
But we never forget that he’s in charge.
It’s always about Jehovah.
And so we do everything out of love for him.
And that, of course,
leads into love for others,
because he loves others.
If a person fails to remember
how Jehovah has blessed him or her,
that person might become big
in their own eyes, like King Saul did.
You’ll recall his example.
Where did that eventually lead Saul?
It led him away from Jehovah’s favor
and blessing.
People like Saul fail to maintain faith.
They fail to remain humble.
What about your faith and your humility?
Well, we see those good qualities in you,
and that’s why we confidently state
that you’re ready to face the things ahead.
Along with Jehovah’s blessing,
your faith will help you to conquer
any temptation that the wicked one,
“the Tempter,” may place before you,
and your humility will help you
to remain unbreakable.
You will be able to defeat the Tempter.
Along with resisting temptation,
your Gilead training will also help you
to continue supporting our vital work
for Jehovah’s Kingdom,
his people, and for those
who will yet listen.
In fact, for all of God’s people,
this is the greater purpose
behind any training
that we receive from him, right?
So, then, wherever you serve,
never forget the purpose behind the blessings
that you have experienced in this school.
Trust in Jehovah and in his Son
to help you at all times.
Use your Gilead training in the branches
and territories where you are going.
Keep in mind that with God’s help,
the One who gives you power,
you are ready to face the things ahead.
Well, we will say a little bit more
about this at the conclusion of the program.
Now we’re going to enjoy a series
of encouraging talks that for all of us
will strengthen our faith,
build up our trust in God,
and highlight his wonderful purpose
that we support.
So for the first talk,
we have Brother Gerrit Lösch
of the Governing Body.
He will speak on the subject
“Cultivate Love That Never Fails.”
Do you want to be loved by others?
Naturally, we all want to be loved.
Love is a basic human need.
Babies thrive on it.
Teenagers thrive on it.
Marriage mates thrive on it.
Bethelites and Gilead students thrive on it.
It makes us happy to be loved.
What about loving others?
Love is unselfish.
Loving others makes the receivers happy,
but it also makes us as givers happy.
Love is the reason why we exist.
Jehovah created us out of unselfish love
to let us share not only life
but also the privilege to love him.
Jehovah does not need our love
since he does not depend on anybody else,
but he appreciates our love.
He loves to be loved by us.
He created us also with the ability
to love others besides him.
We love to do good to others.
We love to love them.
Since when does love exist?
It always existed.
It had no beginning.
Why?
Because “God is love.”
And we know God had no beginning,
so God’s love had no beginning.
There was no time in the past
when God existed but love did not.
Jehovah not only has love,
but he is love personified.
Jehovah created us in his image.
This is why we have this superb privilege
to reflect his love.
In the world, books, movies, and songs
often deal with love.
But what kind of love?
Usually romantic love—love that often fails.
Genuine love of God and of neighbor
is widely lacking today.
When describing “the last days,”
the prophecy at 2 Timothy 3:2 has come true
that people are often “lovers of themselves.”
Me-ism and egotism is widespread.
One journal carries the title Self.
People think, ‘First me, then nothing,
and then me again,
and then perhaps somebody else.’
At 2 Timothy 3:2, Paul also wrote
that people would be “lovers of money.”
In the same prophecy,
it says that the majority
would be “lovers of pleasures
rather than lovers of God.”
For many, entertainment and sports
have become the dominant aspect
of their lives.
Furthermore, 1 John 2:15 indicates
that there is a battle between two loves
—love of Jehovah and love of the world.
The stronger our love for Jehovah is,
the better we will be able to resist
the love of the world.
At Matthew 22:37,
Jesus encouraged cultivating love for God
to the fullest extent possible.
“You must love Jehovah your God
“with your whole heart
and with your whole soul
and with your whole mind.”
How does love for Jehovah grow?
We must tend to the good soil of our heart
where the seed of Kingdom truth was sown.
How does love between two persons grow?
One way is by communication.
We communicate with Jehovah through prayer.
Jehovah communicates with us
through the Bible and his organization.
If we study the Bible and read it daily
as well as attend the congregation meetings,
our love for him will continue to grow.
Love needs to grow.
It is not a matter of how much we know
but how much we love what we know.
Head knowledge is not enough.
There needs to be heart knowledge.
Growing in love is a process.
A plant grows when it is watered;
love grows if it is watered
with the water of truth.
At Philippians 1:9, Paul says:
“And this is what I continue praying,
that your love may abound yet more and more.”
Love grows gradually.
It is not enough to have a little love;
we should abound in love.
Jehovah sets the example.
He expressed his love
by providing the ransom.
In Matthew chapter 18,
Jesus compares Jehovah with a king
who was willing to forgive a debt
of 60 million denarii,
or 10,000 silver talents.
This certainly impresses his love for us.
Jesus expressed his love by being willing
to die for our sins.
This stirs our love in return.
The more one has been forgiven,
the more one will love.
But love is not dependent
on having one’s sins forgiven.
Jesus loved Jehovah so much
but had not a single sin
that needed to be forgiven.
But he loved Jehovah, and he loved us.
The night before he died,
he said at John 14:31:
“I love the Father.”
Do we not (all of us) feel the same?
How can we demonstrate
our love of God in return?
We can do so by serving Jehovah
with all our heart.
This includes preaching and teaching.
True or false?
The most important reason
for preaching and teaching is
love of neighbor.
It sounds good, but it is wrong.
The most important motive for preaching
is, first of all, love for Jehovah.
And the most important objective
is to praise Jehovah.
We want to glorify him and to support
the vindication of his sovereignty.
Love of neighbor comes second.
But we also need to show love
to our brothers.
In one congregation, several sisters
took daily turns to prepare a hot meal
for a quadriplegic brother.
This shows that our love
extends beyond preaching.
It is like with the parable of the Samaritan
who cared for the man
who was assaulted and hurt by robbers.
The Samaritan did not preach to the man
who fell among the robbers.
He just showed unselfish love to him.
Jesus emphasized that our neighborly love
should include even enemies.
At Matthew 5:44, he said:
“I say to you: Continue to love your enemies
and to pray for those persecuting you.”
Our love will be perfect
if we love even our enemies.
Jehovah gives sunshine and rain
even to wicked opposers.
One publisher went to a hospital
to visit an opposing husband.
The man appreciated this kind gesture
very much.
Think of what Jesus has endured.
He was hated without cause,
persecuted, reviled, and murdered.
Help people to develop their appreciation
for what Jesus did for us.
Show interested ones
that because of the ransom,
Jehovah forgives us our sins
and opens the way to everlasting life.
When you talk about the ransom,
don’t do it just in a legalistic way
by saying: “See, like on scales,
“on one side was Adam
and on the other side was Jesus.
“God’s justice required
that by giving his life,
Jesus restored what Adam had lost.”
Rather, make the student meditate
and develop heart appreciation and love
for what Jesus did.
Review with a student what Jesus
went through prior to his execution.
Help him picture in his mind
how Jesus was flogged,
producing quivering ribbons
of bleeding flesh.
Help the student sense how Jesus was mocked.
After his tortured beating,
soldiers said to him mockingly:
“Good day, you King of the Jews!”
Also, they spit on him
and slapped him in the face.
Remind the student
how the soldiers later pounded large nails
into his hands and into his feet.
With the stake swung upright,
the pain was excruciating,
for the weight of the body
tore all the nail wounds.
Yet, rather than threaten,
Jesus prayed for the Roman soldiers:
“Father, forgive them,
for they do not know what they are doing.”
Meditating on what Jesus did for us,
does this not greatly deepen
our love for him?
At Ephesians 3:19, Paul wrote:
“The love of the Christ
. . . surpasses knowledge.”
It is not the love for the Christ
but the love that Jesus displayed
that surpasses head knowledge
and strikes a wonderful chord
in our figurative heart.
Jesus’ course stimulates a response in us.
As we think about what Christ
has done for us,
our love for him deepens.
In fact, 2 Corinthians 5:14 says:
“For the love the Christ has compels us.”
After mentioning gifts of the spirit,
such as healing and speaking in tongues,
Paul explained at 1 Corinthians 12:31:
“Yet I will show you a surpassing way.”
What is this “way”?
The way of love.
In what way is it surpassing?
In the sense that the gifts of the spirit,
including prophesying,
would be “done away with.”
But love would always be there.
Jehovah is eternal.
His love will never fail, never end,
but will continue forever and ever and ever.
Therefore, Paul wrote: “There remain
“faith, hope, love, these three;
but the greatest of these is love.”
He also wrote: “Love never fails.”
Love “endures all things.”
Many brothers suffered a lot
during World War II
and also today in Russia and other countries.
Today, there are a number of governments
in the world that suppress the truth.
As we live in the time of the end,
this is not surprising to us.
It will get worse as the great tribulation
comes closer.
World conditions are also getting worse
in many parts of the world,
and COVID has claimed many human victims.
But we Witnesses keep enduring
by pursuing the surpassing way of love
that never fails.
We shall not only live forever
but also love forever and be loved forever.
Well, thank you very much, Brother Lösch,
for reminding us of how great
Jehovah’s love is for us
and how we in turn must show
heartfelt, wholehearted love
for Jehovah and others.
Our next talk on the program will be given
by Brother Gajus Glockentin,
a helper to the Publishing Committee.
And the theme for his talk is
“How Often Will You Go to Shiloh?”
They were speechless when they heard
she would leave home
and join full-time service.
Instead of pursuing their common goals,
dreams, and hopes,
she would do whatever she was told to do.
What a sacrifice!
They were so proud of her.
And they started thinking
about what to do in order to support her.
Whom are we talking about?
Let us open to Judges 11,
and let’s find out who they were
and what they did.
Dear soon-to-be graduates, what they did
is something that will help you
to succeed in your assignment.
Let’s read, please, Judges 11:40:
“From year to year,
“the young women of Israel
“would go to give commendation
“to the daughter of Jephthah the Gileadite
four days in the year.”
The young women of Israel
went to the sanctuary in Shiloh
in order to give
commendation and praise
to the daughter of Jephthah.
Commendation strengthened
this full-time servant of Jehovah.
Is this not what you want to do too?
So that’s why we have the question for you,
How often will you “go to Shiloh”?
Will you strengthen others
and stabilize the organization
by regularly commending and praising others?
Let us, therefore, ask
the following questions:
What type of commendation
is effective in strengthening others?
How can you imitate
the young women of Israel?
And why do you want to give
commendation regularly?
Let’s start with the first question,
What type of commendation is effective
in strengthening others?
And let us, please, look at the example
that Jesus set
as we turn to Mark chapter 5.
Here he commends
the frightened, sick woman
who touched his outer garment.
As we read Mark 5:34,
please watch out for five elements
of effective commendation
—Mark 5:34:
“He said to her:
“‘Daughter, your faith has made you well.
Go in peace, and be healed
from your grievous sickness.’”
Did you note
what made this commendation effective?
First, effective commendation is specific.
Jesus commended the woman for what she did.
Her faith moved her to act.
Effective commendation is sincere.
The woman’s faith was real
and outstanding.
Did you notice that Jesus
did not use the opportunity
to counsel her for violating the Law?
This might have made
his commendation sound insincere.
Third, effective commendation is personal.
Jesus used the expression “daughter.”
That expression emphasized
his tender concern for her.
Fourth, effective commendation
is more than words.
Jesus acknowledged the needs of the woman
and followed up with deeds.
He healed her.
And fifth,
effective commendation is unselfish.
Jesus did not commend the woman
in order to make himself look good,
but he was concerned about her
and wanted to make her feel good.
Now, can you do the same?
Let’s go back to Judges 11,
and let’s look again at verse 40.
So this is Judges 11:40,
and let’s answer the second question,
How can you imitate
the young women of Israel?
So the verse started here
in verse 40 by saying
“from year to year,”
so this means regularly,
repeatedly.
The young women would praise
the same person
again and again.
In your assignment as you work with others
in Bethel, in the ministry,
or watch them in your congregation,
can you repeatedly praise them?
For instance, could you praise them
for their zeal,
their fine efforts,
or for their acts of love?
Could you send
an upbuilding text message saying
“Great job,” “Well done,”
“Thumbs up,” “Loved it,”
maybe along with a brief comment?
These messages do not require
a lot of effort and time,
but they can go a long way.
One time is not enough.
Do it again and again.
Don’t worry that the person
could get a big head.
In the Bible,
Jehovah praised and commended
the persons whom he loved repeatedly.
Commending others again and again
is a good thing.
Now, the verse continues here, saying:
“The young women of Israel
would go to give commendation
“to the daughter of Jephthah the Gileadite
four days in the year.”
Being away from their family obligations
must have been a sacrifice.
Somebody else must have taken over
their usual work.
They had to travel to Shiloh
and they may also have brought a gift.
Now, could this serve as a reminder
that giving commendation
might sometimes require
a little bit more time and effort
and can come at a personal cost?
Yes.
Calling somebody or visiting him
requires time and effort.
Spending time with your brother and sister
honors them.
Being out with them in the ministry,
working together on a project,
or asking them for advice
really makes them feel good
and can be a powerful commendation.
It’s worth all it costs.
Timing is important too.
Proverbs 15:23 states:
“A word spoken
at the right time—how good it is!”
So, what is “the right time”
for commendation?
The verses leading up
to our theme scripture here
mentioned that Jephthah’s daughter
right away got much needed support.
So generally speaking,
commendation is of greatest value
when it’s given
as soon as the opportunity comes up,
even if it’s initially just a brief comment.
The sooner somebody receives
positive feedback,
the quicker feelings of insecurity or doubts
will vanish
and the sooner the other person
will be happy and feel good.
Please do not wait too long,
but act right away.
Now, this leads us
to our third and final question,
Why do you want to give
commendation regularly?
As you go to your assignments,
you will be surrounded
by many “daughters of Jephthah”
—faithful, full-time servants of Jehovah
who made sacrifices to serve.
This auditorium is full of them,
and you are among them.
You will meet
brothers and sisters in the congregation,
and some of them are insecure—worried.
Sometimes they doubt
that they are worth anything.
They are giving their very best
to stay faithful despite challenges
—fighting with their own imperfection,
dealing with the results
of their own mistakes,
and are sometimes discouraged
because of setbacks.
They need commendation.
We all need commendation
because commendation
enhances a person’s self-esteem,
it builds confidence and motivates to action,
it reinforces our desire
to do good things,
and it encourages us
to keep on doing our very best.
Please “go to Shiloh” as often as possible.
Now, there’s another important aspect.
The reality is
that when you work closely
with brothers and sisters,
you see their flaws and mistakes.
So, what are you going to do?
Will you ignore that person?
Or will you try to imitate Jehovah,
who is searching for the good in us?
Make it a habit to search for the good,
and then give voice to the positive.
Now, what happens to us
if we are doing it that way?
It can change us.
It can change us from being a complainer
to being a commender.
A commender focuses on the good in others.
He sees others
with Jehovah’s eyes.
A commender is very happy
because he sees
all the beauty around him.
So if you gain a reputation
for commending rather than complaining,
you will succeed in your assignment
because others will love to work with you.
Dear soon-to-be graduates
of the 151st class of Gilead,
please make commending and praising others
part of your personality
—something that comes naturally.
So how often will you “go to Shiloh”?
Please “go to Shiloh” as often as possible.
Well, thank you very much,
Brother Glockentin.
That was such a nice follow-up
to Brother Lösch’s talk on love.
And you really helped us,
all of us brothers and sisters,
to remember the need to encourage
and repeatedly commend others.
Well, this next subject
seems to follow right along too so nicely:
“Does Jehovah Recognize You?”
And it will be delivered
by Brother Luther Georges,
a member of the U.S. Branch Committee.
How do you feel when you
have exerted yourself in some way
and someone you deeply respect says to you,
“Well done”?
Don’t you feel assured that your efforts
were recognized and appreciated?
However, when you dear brothers and sisters
in the 151st class of Gilead
arrive at your assignments
and you exert yourself
to accomplish the work you’ve been given
and give of yourself
to encourage and help others,
suppose you don’t always receive
an audible “well done” from others.
How will you feel?
Does that mean that your efforts
were not appreciated and recognized?
To answer those questions,
we are going to consider:
first, what Jesus had to say on the subject;
second, what we can learn
from some Bible examples;
and third, what this means
for you personally.
Although the desire to receive recognition
from humans is normal,
Jesus helps us to have a balanced view
in Matthew chapter 6.
Please turn to Matthew chapter 6,
and note verse 3
—Matthew 6:3:
“But you, when making gifts of mercy,
do not let your left hand know
what your right hand is doing.”
Now, what did Jesus mean?
Well, these “gifts of mercy”
were really donations for needy ones.
But with these words,
Jesus was exhorting his disciples
not to imitate
the insincere religious leaders of his day
who publicized their gifts of mercy
just to be recognized by humans.
Now, what would be the result
of heeding Jesus words here in verse 3?
Well, Jesus explains in verse 4.
He says: “So that your gifts of mercy
may be in secret.”
Now, for a moment,
think of the gifts of mercy
—the kindnesses
and the theocratic assignments
that you have performed in secret.
For example, likely you’ve
many times telephoned or visited
an ailing brother or sister
just to reassure them
of your love and your concern,
and you’ve even prayed with them,
or perhaps you spent considerable time
being a spiritual mentor
to a Christian youth,
or you may have given generously of yourself
to encourage and provide practical assistance
to a distressed brother or sister
—all of this you did “in secret.”
However, Jesus said that someone
that you deeply respect did take note.
Look there at Matthew 6:4.
He stated in the B  part:
“Your Father who looks on in secret.”
The point is that Jehovah,
who resides in the heavens,
is invisible to mankind,
so he remains in secret
as far as humans are concerned.
But your good deeds
are recognized with approval by Jehovah.
Now, how can we be sure of that?
Well, there are many Bible examples
of faithful men and women, young and old,
whose good deeds and heartfelt devotion
were recognized with approval by Jehovah.
One example is Obadiah, the household steward
of wicked King Ahab.
First Kings chapter 18 explains
that he discreetly, secretly,
and cautiously hid
100 of Jehovah’s prophets
so they would not be killed
by wicked Jezebel.
Now, as illustrated here,
Obadiah supplied them with bread and water
in groups of 50 in caves
without being observed by others.
How do we know that Jehovah in secret
recognized with approval
this faithful, generous, compassionate man?
Well, we know because his courageous acts
are recorded in the Bible
for generations of people to read about.
Another example is the young,
nameless Israelite girl
mentioned in 2 Kings chapter 5.
She was taken away
from her God-fearing family by the Syrians.
Now, as can be seen in this picture,
although surrounded by false worshippers,
she courageously told Naaman’s wife
about Jehovah’s prophet Elisha.
That led to Naaman’s miraculous healing
of leprosy,
it led to Naaman’s becoming
a worshipper of Jehovah,
and it certainly contributed
to Jehovah’s praise.
We don’t know the name of that little girl
—do we?—
but Jehovah does, who in secret
looked favorably on that young girl.
So these two examples and many others
in the Scriptures assure you
that your good deeds are noted by Jehovah.
Please note, though, that Jehovah does more
than just look on in secret.
Look again, please, at Matthew 6:4.
The B  part read in its entirety says:
“Then your Father who looks on in secret
will repay you.”
Often, Jehovah repays us in unexpected ways
—in ways that are better and more meaningful
than humans could ever give us
in the way of recognition.
But how does Jehovah repay us?
While there are many ways,
we’re going to focus
just on three significant ones.
One way is mentioned at Matthew 5:7
—Matthew 5:7.
Jesus said: “Happy are the merciful,
since they will be shown mercy.”
So by our being kind and merciful,
Jehovah mercifully forgives us
and allows us to enjoy
a warm, personal relationship with him.
A second way he repays us is mentioned
at Mark 10:29, 30.
There Jesus promised
that we would receive “100 times more”
than anything we sacrifice to serve Jehovah.
And one resulting, tangible reward
that Jehovah provides
is our ever-expanding,
loving spiritual family.
A third way he repays us
is by means of his promise
of the priceless reward
of everlasting life in God’s new world.
And regarding righteous ones
who perform good deeds
but fall asleep in death
before the end of this system,
Jesus at Luke 14:14 gave the assurance
that they will be repaid in the resurrection.
And then they will see the full effect
of Jehovah’s recognition and blessing
on their good deeds.
In addition to your gifts of mercy
in your new assignments,
your heartfelt devotion will be reflected
as you, with Jehovah’s help,
face and successfully endure
various challenges
—many of which
others will know nothing about.
But even though
you may not receive recognition
or a complimentary “well done” from others
for your good deeds, your kindnesses,
your sacrifices, and your endurance,
please remain confident
that you will be recognized with approval
by a loving Father, Jehovah.
And as Jesus promised:
“[Jehovah] who looks on in secret
will repay you.”
Thank you very much, Brother Georges,
for highlighting
that no matter what happens around us,
Jehovah sees and treasures
the good that we try so hard to do.
Next, we have here Brother Richard Chilton,
one of the Gilead School instructors,
and he will speak on the subject
“‘Who Will Rise Up for Me?’”
I’d like to start
by telling you an experience
of a brother at Patterson Bethel.
He had recently lost a loved one
—a parent, in fact—
in a horrible accident.
And he desperately needed
to talk with someone
about what he was going through
and how he was feeling.
He was, in a word, unraveling,
and he needed help.
So he called a close friend of his
at Wallkill Bethel
but, unfortunately,
the brother said that at that time
he was unable to talk.
Have you ever found yourself
in a similar situation
—that is, feeling like you’re drowning
and in need of assistance?
The psalmist did.
Please read with me his words
in the 94th Psalm
and note his question.
It’s Psalm 94:16.
The psalmist asked in part:
“Who will rise up for me?”
He goes on to answer his own question
in verses 17 and 19.
He says: “If Jehovah had not been my helper,
“I would soon have perished. . . .
“When anxieties overwhelmed me,
you [Jehovah, you]
comforted and soothed me.”
Well, when you and I send up
such heartfelt prayers to Jehovah,
how does he rise up for us?
And how can we imitate him
by rising up in behalf of others?
Let’s go back in time
and consider an example.
During the days of Israel’s judges,
there lived a wealthy landowner named Boaz.
In obedience to Jehovah’s Law,
he made sure that in his fields
gleanings were left
for the afflicted and poor.
One day,
he observes a woman working in his fields
that he does not recognize.
And soon he learns
that she is the foreigner Ruth,
who up to this point,
he has only heard about.
Well, what does Boaz do?
Notice how he rose up for her
at Ruth 2:8
—Ruth chapter 2,
starting with verse 8:
“Boaz said to Ruth: ‘Listen, my daughter.
“‘Do not go away to glean in another field,
“‘and do not go anywhere else;
“‘stay close by my young women.
“‘Keep your eyes
on the field that they harvest,
“‘and go with them.
“‘I have commanded the young men
not to touch you.
“‘When you are thirsty,
go to the water jars and drink
from what the young men have drawn.’”
Clearly, Boaz protected Ruth.
He brought her under his loving care.
We see him looking out for, shielding,
defending the one in need.
And when Ruth, according to verse 10,
questions his motive
for helping her, a foreigner,
notice a second way he rose up in her behalf
at Ruth 2:11:
“Boaz answered her:
“‘A full report was made to me
“‘of all you have done for your mother-in-law
“‘after the death of your husband
“‘and how you left
your father and your mother
“‘and the land of your relatives
“‘to go to a people
whom you had not known before.
“‘May Jehovah reward you
for what you have done,
“‘and may there be a perfect wage for you
“‘from Jehovah the God of Israel,
“under whose wings
you have come to seek refuge.’
“To this she said:
“‘Let me find favor in your eyes, my lord,
“‘because you have comforted me
“‘and spoken reassuringly
“‘to your servant,
although I’m not even one of your servants.’”
When Boaz spoke reassuringly to Ruth,
the footnote says
that he ‘spoke to her heart.’
How so?
His words were not
just general expressions of praise.
They were specific to Ruth
and to her personal circumstances.
He reassured Ruth that Jehovah loved her
for all the sacrifices she had made
and that she would not be forgotten.
Those comforting, encouraging words of Boaz
convinced Ruth
that everything was going to be OK.
But Boaz did more
than offer reassuring words.
Notice the third way he rose up
at Ruth 4:9.
By taking swift action,
Boaz ensured that the inheritance
of his deceased relative Elimelech
would remain in their family
—chapter 4, verse 9:
“Boaz said to the elders and all the people:
“‘You are witnesses today
“‘that I am buying from Naomi
“‘all that belonged to Elimelech
“‘and all that belonged
to Chilion and Mahlon.
“‘I am also acquiring Ruth the Moabitess,
“‘the wife of Mahlon, as a wife
[for what reason?]
“‘to restore the name
of the dead man
“‘to his inheritance,
“‘so that the name of the dead man
“‘will not be cut off from among his brothers
“‘and from the city gate of his home.
You are witnesses today.’”
Jehovah used Boaz
to rise up for Ruth and Naomi
in three main ways.
One,
he protected those under his care.
Second,
he spoke reassuringly to them.
And third,
he took action.
Seeing the need, he rose up to meet it
—he protected,
he reassured,
he took action.
Well, how about you and me?
Should we not do the same
for those in need of assistance?
And what can result when we do?
Well, before you answer that,
let’s go back to our opening experience.
You see, the very next morning
upon arriving at his work assignment,
our distressed brother received a phone call
from the Patterson lobby.
It was the brother, the friend from Wallkill.
He had gotten up early that morning
and had driven over an hour
from the Wallkill complex
to reach the Patterson complex by 8:00 a.m.
He had arranged
for a private conference room,
and he was there
waiting for that distressed friend
so that he could find out, “How can I help?”
That was 22 years ago.
But I can tell you now,
I have never forgotten
what that friend did for me
when he rose up for me on that day.
By means of the action that he took,
I felt reassured,
I felt protected, and I felt loved.
So the question
for you 24 students—
In fact, the question for all of us
in our hearing audience is this:
What will you do
to rise up for someone in need?
We have every confidence
that each and every one of you
will answer that call when it comes,
saying: “Here I am.
I will rise up for you.
How can I help?”
Thank you so much, Brother Chilton.
We appreciated that reassurance
that when we rise up to help others,
Jehovah will love us for it
and others will rise up in turn for us.
Next, we have another instructor
from the Gilead School,
Brother Trent Lippold.
And his theme is a question:
“Will I Be More?”
The apostle Paul
was not a man given to boasting.
But on one occasion,
he felt compelled to boast a little.
And that account is found for us
in the book of 2 Corinthians chapter 11.
Please read with me 2 Corinthians 11:23:
“Are they ministers of Christ?
“I reply like a madman,
I am more outstandingly one.”
What was the subject of Paul’s boast?
Being a minister of Christ.
And now, being a minister of Christ,
what was Paul’s focus in this boast?
He said:
“I am more outstandingly one.”
William Tyndale,
when he translated this verse,
kept the very terseness
and the clarity of the Greek
when he simply said: “I am more.”
That’s Paul’s boast.
What is he focusing on, though,
as a minister of Christ in his boast?
He said: “I have done more work.”
And now from verses 23 through 27,
he gives almost a résumé
of what happened to him because of the work
he did as a minister of Christ.
Well, how will your
properly focusing on your work
as a minister of Christ
help you to succeed in your assignments?
Let’s consider an example.
And it’s found in the book of Luke chapter 8
—Luke 8:1-3:
“Shortly afterward he [this is Christ]
“traveled from city to city
and from village to village,
“preaching and declaring the good news
of the Kingdom of God.
“And the Twelve were with him,
as were certain women
“who had been cured
of wicked spirits and sicknesses:
“Mary who was called Magdalene,
“from whom seven demons had come out;
“Joanna the wife of Chuza,
Herod’s man in charge;
“Susanna; and many other women,
who were ministering to them
from their belongings.”
A group: Christ, the Twelve,
and women
(women who ministered to the others)
—what did that mean?
Did it mean they cooked the meals,
washed the dishes, mended the clothes?
Possibly but not necessarily entirely that.
These women ministered to the others
by helping them to complete their assignment
as they went on completing
their assignment as disciples of Christ.
Notice the backgrounds of these women.
Luke mentions three.
He says they’re women who were cured
of wicked spirits and sicknesses.
Look at Mary.
“Mary,” he says,
“from whom seven demons had come out.”
He also mentions “Joanna,
the wife of Chuza, Herod’s man in charge,”
and “Susanna.”
Think of their backgrounds.
Mary—seven demons came out of her.
I wonder how that demon possession
contributed to her personality.
What about Joanna?
“Joanna,” it says “the wife of Chuza,
Herod’s man in charge.”
In other words,
Joanna lived in Herod’s palace;
she was a woman of the court.
And also Susanna
—it doesn’t say specifically much about her
other than perhaps she was
one of the women who was cured of a sickness.
What was her personality like?
How did these personalities work together?
Here’s part of the example of what
can help us to minister,
and that is to realize that when
we look through the Gospel accounts,
we never find these women
bickering or arguing among themselves
about position or prominence or place,
unlike some others in the group
that were with them.
Why?
Because these women
focused on their ministry;
they focused on their work.
They served others,
and they served each other.
And that is a powerful example
for you and for me.
Remember at Isaiah 11:6, it’s prophesied:
“The wolf will reside . . . with the lamb.”
Lions with calves
—it’s not going to be all lambs.
You will meet diverse personalities
in your assignments,
and you will have to work
with diverse personalities
just like the women did.
So, what will you do?
Remember that some of the very qualities
that make a lion or make a wolf
might be exactly the qualities
you need
to help you fulfill your assignment.
So they’re not all lambs,
but they are all our brothers and sisters.
So if Jehovah allows
a diversity of personalities
within the context of the new personality,
then so should we.
Diverse personalities
make for rich friendships.
You know, Luke wrote these words,
and he’s talking about events
that took place
around the Passover of 31 C.E.
When you think of these women,
these women were with Jesus
at Golgotha.
These women were at the tomb.
Likely these women may have been
in the upper room as well.
That tells us that these women endured
challenging circumstances.
They stuck with the Lord.
What helped them?
Look back at the verse.
Verse 2 says:
“As were certain women who had been cured
of wicked spirits and sicknesses.”
These women deeply appreciated
what Jesus had done for them.
Certainly they glorified God
because of what Jesus had done for them.
But they also
allowed their appreciation
to help them endure
—to endure in a self-sacrificing life
of ministering to others.
So stay appreciative,
and that will help you endure.
Our friends are dying;
our friends are getting sick.
Meditate on how Jehovah has blessed you.
Meditate on the little things each day,
the little gifts Jehovah gives you
—maybe it’s simply the peace
in your heart and mind this day.
Remain appreciative for that,
and that will help you endure
as a minister in your assignment.
One other thing that’s noteworthy
about these women
is that these women were not easily
thrown off by others.
Remember we said—
We talked about others, the other disciples.
When other disciples left Christ,
the women stayed.
At Golgotha, even the apostles
to a certain degree had left Christ or fled.
The women stayed.
They stood solidly on their own faith.
Brothers and sisters,
do not be thrown off easily by others.
Sometimes—and you can imagine
for these women with the disciples—
it felt like a family.
And sometimes today in families
ones choose to leave Jehovah
even at this late hour.
Stand solidly on your own faith.
Like the women,
do not be easily thrown off.
Stay with Jehovah.
These women must have made
quite an impression on Luke,
because he’s the only Gospel writer
who mentions them by name in this way.
And interestingly, Luke was
a traveling companion of Paul’s.
From about 50 C.E. in Troas,
he picked up with Paul
and started traveling with him,
and he traveled with him for years.
I wonder if they spoke together.
I wonder if they spoke about these women.
I wonder if they talked
about how important it is
to focus on the work of ministering
and not to get distracted by other things.
Or I wonder if they talked
about the value of preserving unity
by learning to work
with different personalities.
Did they talk about the power
of appreciation to endure?
We don’t know.
But what we do know is this:
When Paul was in prison in Rome,
and he wrote his letter to the Hebrews,
the congregation in Judea in Jerusalem,
Luke was with him.
And do you remember what Paul wrote
at Hebrews 6:10?
He said: “God is not unrighteous
so as to forget your work and the love
you showed for his name by ministering.”
Jehovah did not forget these women.
And Jehovah will not forget you.
May you work hard
to put into practice the things
that you have learned.
And may you be able to say
that you are more outstandingly
a minister of Christ.
Well, thank you very much, Brother Lippold,
for those Scriptural examples.
We are more determined to focus on our work
as ministers of the Christ.
What a delightful program!
And that was only the first part.
Later this month, Parts 2 and 3
will be available on jw.org,
so be sure to tune in.
In this month’s video postcard,
we are visiting the islands
of São Tomé and Príncipe.
On a world map,
they look like tiny spots
located in the Gulf of Guinea
off the western coast of Africa.
The rainy, humid climate
in São Tomé and Príncipe produces
luxurious rain forests,
covering the slopes of mountains
that can rise
to over 2,000 meters,
or 6,600 feet.
These tropical islands are surrounded
by palm-fringed beaches.
The residents are often gifted
with amazing sunsets.
The people of São Tomé and Príncipe
are hardworking
—often washing their clothes
in the Abade River.
Many have work related to palm trees,
which includes palm oil,
palm wine,
and handicraft production.
And we can see that it is hard work!
Their delicious cuisine
is based on a wide variety of fruits,
such as guava, passion fruit, papaya, mango,
as well as seafood dishes.
But there is another work
taking place on São Tomé and Príncipe.
These friendly and warmhearted people
have a deep appreciation for God’s Word,
and it is customary
to see them reading the Bible
on their balconies.
During the pandemic,
the brothers and sisters
adapted their preaching work
by writing letters and delivering them
as conditions permitted.
The 933 publishers
in the 14 congregations
are conducting 1,705 Bible studies,
and baptisms continued
throughout the pandemic.
Because of the high cost of Internet access,
some of our brothers and sisters
along with other interested ones
can attend the meetings,
the Memorial,
and conventions
by means of the only local TV channel.
Thanks to this arrangement,
many Bible studies are requested every week.
What was the Memorial attendance in 2021?
The attendance was 5,794,
which is more than six times
the number of publishers!
Here are some
of your fellow brothers and sisters
from the São Marçal Congregation.
The 131 publishers there conduct
190 Bible studies.
The happy and loyal brothers and sisters
from São Marçal
and all from São Tomé and Príncipe
send their love and greetings.
And we send our love back to all of them!
Thank you for joining us this month.
From the World Headquarters
of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
this is JW Broadcasting!